The Joe Rogan experience.
I'm interested in where again,
in with your own,
do you feel uh,
connected to the person you were as an adolescent?
Did you notice it in your own parent in,
do you notice it in the type of choices you make because of the image?
I have a view from the outside is like you have literally built something for
yourself.
You operate within it and you are quite protected and you are independent and
not forced to deal with too many negative outside influences by an unavoidable
dynamics.
The unnecessary dynamics like uh,
you know,
as a father and dealing with colleagues and stuff like that.
Do you experience a lot of tension,
anxiety?
What was happened to that guy?
Do you feel that you have transcended that?
Cause I do in my own life feel like,
yeah.
After I'm not the adolescent boy was.
I've like,
you know,
I've learned from that and are still in a very sort of cold psychological way.
Yeah.
When I'm doing a era that's the g Bjj classes I'm doing over here with Professor
Ricardo will,
he's amazing guy.
Like when I'm,
when I'm doing those classes,
I have a sense of fathering my child self of like,
you know,
cause I weren't doing those kinds of things when I was a kid.
I'm like,
it's all right Russell.
We're just in a Bjj class and it's a panic then I to impress anybody.
Right.
Just do that.
If you don't know,
just ask.
I've got a voice in myself because I chat to Tony Robbins,
you know,
he's like another obviously high achieving guy who I admire and respect a great
deal and like you know when he talks he does like these cold plunges and he says
before I get in that plant jogging and that fucking punch lucky took us,
my God,
I don't talk to myself like I would like,
right Russell,
we're going to get in the cold plunge.
We're going to let you know I have to talk to myself.
Generally.
What are you doing with that aspect of yourself?
Do you still have a relationship with it?
How is it like when you're doing all these psychedelic cosmonaut explorations of
the psyche,
are you not encountering aspects of yourself that are on,
uh,
on developed and addressed?
There's always always
going to be unaddressed and undeveloped aspects of yourself,
but I'm very,
very,
very different to who I was when I was a young boy.
I mean,
um,
I'm not 100% self actualized.
I don't think anybody is,
but I'm just a totally different human being.
I remember it,
but I remember it with humor.
Like I remember a laugh.
I'm like,
wow,
so silly.
I was so weird back then.
And uh,
you know,
with life experience and developing confidence and understanding of who you are
and why you had those feelings and why you were insecure and why he had so much
self doubt,
martial arts helped me with,
with that tremendously.
Because it was the first thing that I ever did where I didn't feel like a loser.
So the first thing that I ever did where people like respected me and they liked
me for it,
you know,
I'm like,
wow,
this is like something that was a feeling that I was completely unused to in the
14 previous years of my life.
All of a sudden there was this,
this feeling that I was unusual.
I was unique,
I was special.
Wow.
You know,
I was appreciated.
They were good at quick.
Yeah,
I was,
I had a natural inclination towards it and I was obsessed with it.
So I was obsessed with,
it's those training every day,
all day long.
And then my instructor recognized it really early on,
so he,
uh,
allowed me to train there for free and just,
I would teach classes and teaching classes helped me a lot as well because when
you're teaching,
you're breaking down techniques and you're,
you,
when you're showing someone how to do it,
you really cementing those pathways in your own mind.
Yeah,
yeah,
that's right.
That must be an important step on the road to mastery.
I see that clip where Eddie Bravo gave you your black belt and he were very
moved by that.
Like,
so for me that like moments like that,
it must connect you to the beginning of the journey.
Yeah,
that does.
for sure.
And it's still,
you know,
the,
the journey of Jujitsu is a fascinating one because unless you're someone who's,
you know,
a solid he barrow or John Jacques Machado,
or it's just a true master who's dedicated their entire life to it,
the journey is so long,
it's so long.
It's like if you're a guy who runs,
you'd like to run,
I like to run a mile three or four days a week,
no big deal.
But then,
you know,
your next door neighbor's and ultra marathon runner is preparing for them the
Moab to 40 where he's going to run 240 miles.
Yeah.
You're just,
you're never gonna catch up the same amount of times and you should always defer
to that person when you have questions about running.
And that's how it is with Jujitsu.
Like is,
you know,
yeah,
I'm a black belt,
but I'm not a black belt.
Like John Jacques Machado is a black belt is that there's levels to even to
that,
so I always have questions so the journey's never over.
It's always long.
There's always a better way to get out of an arm bar or a better way to set up a
triangle or whatever it is.
There's the,
one of the beautiful things about Jujitsu is that it's so complex.
There's so many variables,
there's so many situations and interactions and exchanges and entries and
defenses and and way to chain moves together and the correct way to set
something up to three steps ahead to know that if you grab the lapel this way,
the guy's going to try to shake it off that way and that exposes this,
which exposes that and then the next defense will expose this and then you keep
going and going and going and going until you get them.
It's so beautiful to watch that because it's like as if there's a preexisting
net or grid of interrelated signs that we'll work together and like as a white
belt,
I've got three stripes now.
I was like,
thanks.
I was really hoping that by the time I came back on here I'd have a blue belt
and that cut the closing on it.
I'm on the train,
I'm training free times a week privates and I'm attending two classes and what
I've done.
That's great.
Thanks a lot.
And was a significant step for me is like now in the classes when I'm spire of
people,
I don't try just in the handshake to manipulate them into going easy.
[inaudible]
lovelies Deco Ralph we go.
Then
we tried to manipulate people.
Yeah.
Like just the subtle gesture or something like that.
Just try to take it easy on me.
Don't hurt me.
Come on to a avoid big people.
Yeah.
Sometimes like I try and stay down that white belt ended a room,
but like now the more I do it,
like the more they coaxed me up near great big giant men,
like a lightly as a guide.
I go like the soft ones up area,
like the hard end of purple belt and above Dave,
uh,
Porpoise Bay and that there's people out their hands and their feet look
different to my hands and feet as different than their hands and feet over
different from mine is mine are to my daughters and I feel like,
how am I supposed to ever do anything with these people?
Like hard water,
like drowning in hard war,
the way they move and followed around me and I want to try that if it was
supposed to do and my breathing goes.
Yeah,
but the fingers with other white belts is that,
uh,
what I feel is like there is,
my ego comes back in because there's,
I feel like no,
I should be getting something.
The first time I got choked out by another white belt I like,
I felt like I went into a room I'd not been in since I was 16 getting my ass
kicked in,
in bus stops,
you know,
stuff like this.
I felt like I was quiet for 24 hours just sitting and reflecting on Oh shit.
And I just picked up like this is a combat sport.
There's happens you're going to experience with by,
right.
So it doesn't mean I'm a bad person.
The I filed a no,
you're going to have to get used to that.
You're going to be used to humiliation.
You get used to defeat,
but it's,
it's that humble
bullying is very good for you.
You know,
I've been,
I don't know how many times I've been tapped out in my life,
but it's probably more than a thousand,
probably thousands,
you know,
and that the,
yeah,
there,
uh,
do you sit there while,
I'll tell you about Jujitsu and the other and the other thing that's been good
about it is like when it is the other way,
like I remember like a guide,
it was a big guy on top of me and like he,
he was in mount right.
I'm not like he won't actually applying a submission,
but there's just the sheer discomfort of having someone there.
Their body,
their sweat,
their hair,
their abdomen,
their reproductive organs.
They,
the jest if system theses in their bow.
And I just nearly tapped out at,
but then he went to move to get an armbar.
Bideford hang on a second.
There's a moment and I managed to escape from that and like the amount of energy
that that release is like,
fuck you.
Yes.
That's hilarious.
Yeah,
it is very satisfying feeling.
It's also very satisfying to to defend against something that someone used to
catch you with.
Like say if someone's a really good at taking your back.
Yeah.
He choked you a couple of times and then one time they take your back,
but you defend and you get out.
You're like,
are cut out.
Yes,
there's an escape.
I can make this.
I'm getting better.
I love being in the cave.
That meant we'll spice because what my technique was,
oh,
I'm not good at that.
Never bother trying.
I'm not good at that kind of stuff.
So for me at this stage in my life to go and do something that I'm not good at
this with other men that is competitive,
they involve so much vulnerability and failure and learning.
I'm thinking,
well,
you've got growing.
You've got to be growling.
She'll doing stuff that you never would have done before.
Even turning up a new place like I'm doing here in NAM,
making those new relationships and doing that.
You know,
it's amazing for me.
And another thing I'm into is the integrity of it.
Right.
But it was Chris Clear,
uh,
black belt on the [inaudible] Gracie,
right in UK.
My teacher,
like if he gave me a blue belt that would look good,
man.
He'll be videoed it.
I would be everywhere.
Russell brand got blue belt is shit must work.
But no,
he doesn't do it out of integrity and respect for that,
you know,
it means more to him.
Yeah.
Evidently.
Than as simply the act of kindness.
Did,
you know,
so lightly.
What is nice to belong to something that has protected and valuable systems.
He did say to me,
you keep going by the end of the year Blue Bell I think,
but like,
uh,
you know,
is not dished out like these.
Nice to know that there's some kind of order or an area where celebrity
manipulation,
charm human,
none of those things all redundant.
No.
In Jujitsu,
it's very protected.
Anyone that gives out a bad belt,
it's very bad for their integrity.
It's the,
the,
the school would lose face so badly in the community and you meet someone who's
a Hicks and Gracie Brown belt,
that mother fucker's a Hicks and Gracie brown belt.
He's is as legit as they get.
They don't get any more legit.
Like if you got to that point of,
and Gracie gives you a brown belt,
it's a dis,
it's irrefutable and that's how it should be in.
The beautiful thing about the art form is that it has this self correcting sort
of aspect to it,
that when you roll,
when you spar with each other,
it,
your ability or lack of is exposed and there's no other way around it.
Yeah.
That's good to not avoid that [inaudible] but you'll be better.
You know,
you're,
you're a fit guy.
You're a healthy guy.
If you just keep going and get off that fucking Vegan Diet and keep going.